---
title: FAQ
author: Aleksey Mikhailov
date: 2021-03-12
category: Learning
layout: post
---

### What effect does Kotlin Multiplatform have on application size?

App Size: GoPro had questions about app size increase. They discovered, "Ok, a release build of the app with Kotlin makes a difference of ~1MB, so that's awesome." 

### If an error occurs when there is no network on iOS, the code does not get into the catch block if we catch an Exception

The reason for this behavior is currently not clear, since an Exception is shown in this case - io.ktor.client.engine.ios.IosHttpRequestException, but for a solution use catch instead of Exception - Throwable

The idea is that we should not chase Throwable, since [Exception are errors that are supposed to be processed, and Error (the second branch of Throwable heirs) are unsolvable errors] (http://java-online.ru/java-throws.xhtml), which should not be caught by the code. But, in this case, something inside ktor went wrong.

Until they solve [issue] (https://github.com/ktorio/ktor/issues/1165) - use it in cases where we make network requests Throwable instead of Exception in catch

### Will there be a memory leak if both a Swift object and a Kotlin object have strong references to each other?

Yes. This is limitation of ARC used in Swift and Objective-C.

### When building for iOS Simulator, Xcode reports architecture incompatibility, Kotlin module is x64, but arm64 is needed

It all started with 12 Xcode. You can cure it through
`ONLY_ACTIVE_ARCH = YES;`

in the xcode configuration of the project (so that it does not compile all unnecessary architectures when running on the simulator, only the x64 needed).

For the future, for support and arm macbooks, it will be necessary to improve MultiPlatformLibrary.podspec so that selectors are selected for the simulator arm when we are on arm mac.

user-defined VALID_ARCHS can be removed if present.

### How do you manage multithread handling in kotlin native (IOS)?

first of all, we strive to minimize the places where multithreading is used, because in this places we should very carful check what objects passed between threads to correct freeze all this objects. In this places we use coroutines native-mt branch to send work at separated thread, also we use in past [coroutineWorker](https://github.com/Autodesk/coroutineworker). and also we use in platform side places just dispatch_async with freeze objects (if multithreading can be moved in iosMain side, not commonMain)

### Do you have any recommendations for the Integration and exposure of third-party libraries with Cocoa Pods?

we recommend use custom cocoapods integration logic, with our <https://github.com/icerockdev/mobile-multiplatform-gradle-plugin> because:\
plugin allows to use dynamic framework (official cocoapods gradle plugin allows only static frameworks)\
plugin give all control of podspec file (not generate any podspec at all) - here our used <https://github.com/icerockdev/moko-template/blob/master/mpp-library/MultiPlatformLibrary.podspec>\
plugin allows to compile any version of framework (debug/release , x64/arm64) from gradle tasks, without opening xcode at all\
export dependencies into framework header will be simple - just like in our template - <https://github.com/icerockdev/moko-template/blob/master/mpp-library/build.gradle.kts#L46>. here description - <https://github.com/icerockdev/mobile-multiplatform-gradle-plugin#setup-export-as-ios-framework>

### How to speed up compilation times?

use latest kotlin version. at now 1.4.30 got significant speed up of build time on K/N.\
try to minimize public api of framework header (mark internal all things, what should be internal)\
separate project to independend modules, with flat hierarchy - many independent features + one umbrella module. With this approach your incremental builds will be faster because not changed modules will be used from cache.\
enable gradle parallel build, enable gradle build cache, enable gradle daemon, give more ram for gradle and use gradle scan to find correct count of gradle.workers.max and available memory (K/N compiler require many RAM, so if you got 10 parallel workers with 10GB ram you can got slowest build, than if you use 5 parallel workers with 10GB ram)\
minimize usage of kotlin-kapt and jetifier, disable unused android build features - <https://developer.android.com/reference/tools/gradle-api/4.1/com/android/build/api/dsl/BuildFeatures>\
(edited)

### How do you manage or what do you recommend for multiplatform reactive programming?

we use for our presentation layer LiveData from moko-mvvm - there also contained many transforms extensions for reactive mapping, merging, etc.\
in data layer we use coroutines Flow, StateFlow.\
also you can use <https://github.com/badoo/Reaktive> if you want Rx standard.

### Version management (best practices to upgrade kotlin versions, example from 1.3.X to 1.4.X)?

start from 1.4.0 all 1.4.* versions have backward compatibility. but before 1.4 we should search libs that compiled exactly with our kotlin version. for simplify this search we implement <http://libs.kmp.icerock.dev/>\
best practice - do not forget about updates and try to update to the current version. the longer you don't update, the more painful the update will be later, when an important bugfix is required

### What resources would you recommend? slack channels, forums, or some other resources?

<https://kotlinlang.org/docs/mobile/home.html>\
<https://kotlinlang.org/docs/mpp-intro.html>\
<https://kotlinlang.org/docs/native-concurrency.html>\
<http://kotlinlang.slack.com/> - #multiplatform, #kotlin-native\
<https://github.com/icerockdev/>\
<http://libs.kmp.icerock.dev/>

### How do you make a singleton for ios in the general code?

object is a singleton for ios, it just looks like a call to a constructor, but in fact the same object is returned.

to make it prettier, you can create a global (not in an object) variable and then it will be available from swift as a property of a class (not an object) by the name <file name> Kt

type in Utils.kt add val test: String \
and in swift there will be UtilsKt.test

and with the object itself object Utils {val test: String} \
will be in swift Utils (). test \
but in fact, work with the same object will always have to be done
